Hello, in this video we'll look
at Crash, a command line
interface for CrateDB.
We'll start by downloading a
copy of Crash.
Then we'll use it to connect
both to a CrateDB cluster in
the cloud and one running
locally using Docker, jumping
straight in.
We'll start here at the CrateDB
website and you're going to want
to click documentation.
And then down here on the left,
there's a Crash CLI section.
Inside here, there's various
information about what Crash is
and how to use it.
We're going to want the
installation link.
There are two methods for
installing Crash.
We can either use Python's pip
package manager, which is the
method that I'm going to use, or
you can download it using a curl
command and then change the
permissions on that and just run
it as an executable.
But let's go with the Python
method and I'll just click copy
here, swap to the terminal, and
we'll paste a command there and
off it goes and installs.
Now that installed quite quickly
because I have some of these
dependencies cached from
beforehand.
Yours might take a moment while
it downloads some of them from
the Internet.
So now we've installed Crash,
let's connect to our cloud
cluster.
What we need to do is go over
here to the Cloud Console.
So this is from when you set up
the cluster earlier, and here in
the overview, you'll see down
the bottom here there's a
section connecting to your
cluster.
Click CLI and what you'll see is
the command that we need to
invoke Crash and pass it.
The host names of the hosts,
that part of the cluster, and
the username that we want to
connect.
As we have a single node cluster
here, so there's only one host
name.
I'm going to click copy here and
then go back to the terminal and
paste that command in.
I now need to enter the password
for the admin user.
And with that done, we're
connected to our cluster in the
cloud.
At the CR prompt here we can
type SQL statements.
Let's do a simple select ID,
hostname from sys.nodes.
This is a table that exists
already.
When we do that, you'll see we
have a single entry.
There's just one node in our
cluster.
If we want to look down at the
bottom there you'll see the
username that I'm connected as
admin.
The default schema that Crash
will use if we don't put a
schema name in front of a table
name.
So that's doc, the cluster that
I'm connected to, my course
cluster, and the host names that
form part of that are sort of
over there to the right.
If we want to quit Crash, we
can do Control+D and return to
the terminal prompt.
So that covers the cloud
cluster.
What we want to do next is
connect to a cluster running
locally with Docker in case you
chose that option.
So again, I'll just clear the
terminal here.
And when we run the cluster on
Docker, it runs locally on our
machine and it's in a container
managed by docker and it exposes
port 4200.
So we can just use the default
settings in Crash to just type
Crash and it will connect to
that local cluster.
So as you saw before, we're now
connected, we can type the same
SQL statement, select ID,
hostname from sys.nodes and
you'll see that again we get a
single result which is our one
node in the cluster.
And again down the bottom there
we are connected as a user
called crate.
This time that user doesn't need
a password in the Docker
environment.
And again, our default schema
is doc and we have a single
host in the cluster, similarly
to before Control+D exits.
So that's everything that we
need to know about Crash for the
moment.
So take a moment, download a
copy of Crash and get connected
to your cluster.